
	[image: image1.jpg]


WILL OF

TESTATOR NAME
Dated:




THIS IS THE LAST WILL of me, TESTATOR NAME of TESTATOR ADDRESS, in the State of New South Wales.
1. I REVOKE all previous wills and testamentary dispositions.
2. I APPOINT my solicitor MURRAY JOHN FAHEY of Level 1, 2 Barrack Street, Sydney in the aforesaid State as my Executor and Trustee. 
3. If MURRAY JOHN FAHEY is unable or unwilling to act (or to continue to act) as my Executor and Trustee I APPOINT such of MY SUBSTITUTE and my relationship SUBSTITUTE as are willing and able to act, as my Executors and Trustees.
4. In this Will: 
a) The expression my Executor means my Executors and Trustees as previously appointed while acting and my personal representatives and Executor for the time being;  

b) My Executor in addition to accepting any gift given to them in this Will may apply to the Court for commission for their pains and trouble in carrying out their duties as my Executor; 

c) Gifts to a person who is named as my Executor is not dependent on that person acting as Executor; and
d) I authorise any Executor (whether original or substitute) of mine being a person engaged in any profession or business, to be entitled to charge and be paid from my estate all usual professional and business charges for business transacted, time expended and acts done by them, in connection with the powers, provisions and requirements of acting as my Executor. 
5. I GIVE all of my real and personal property to my Trustee to pay all debts, legacies, funeral and testamentary expenses and any death, estate or succession duties for which my Estate is liable and TO HOLD the residue then remaining on the following further terms.

6. I GIVE; 
(a) $ LEGACY AMOUNT to CHARITY NAME (CHARITY ABN); 

(b) $ LEGACY AMOUNT3 to CHARITY NAME (CHARITY ABN) no2;

(c) $ LEGACY AMOUNT3  to CHARITY NAME (CHARITY ABN) NO3
if the gifts in 5(a), or 5(b) or 5(c) cannot take effect completely or at all, to the extent that it cannot take effect: to the charitable organisation or organisations in Australia which my executors in their discretion consider most nearly fulfils or fulfil the objects I intend to benefit in the share or shares my executors think fit; the receipt of the treasurer, secretary or public officer for the time being of a beneficiary under this provision is a sufficient discharge to my executors in respect of a gift to that beneficiary:

7. I GIVE to my daughter NAME all my jewelleryGIFT. If NAME does not survive me and this gift fails, I GIVE all my jewellery to my granddaughter OTHER PERSON NAME (“SHORT NAME”)
8. I GIVE to NAME my painting by PAINTER, but in the event this gift fails it shall form part of my Residual Estate.

9. (a) I DIRECT my Trustee to divide my share portfolio into 2 equal Portions and to hold and dispose these Portions in accordance with the following provisions:

(i)
I give one Portion each to my children child name  and child name.

(a) If a gift referred to in clause 8(a)(i) lapses or fails because any of my children child name and child name do not survive me to become a beneficiary of a part in my estate but leave children who survive me (“the survivors”) then I DIRECT my Trustee to divide the part that would have been given into one or more sections and I GIVE each of the survivors one equal section: 

(b) If a gift referred to in clause 8(a)(i) lapses or fails because no person attains a vested interest in that Portion, that Portion is to be divided and added equally to the other respective Portions referred to in clause 8(a)(i), the gifts of which have not then lapsed or failed.
10. (a) I DIRECT my Trustee to sell my principal place of residence, TESTATOR ADDRESS, in the State of New South Wales and to divide the proceeds into 3 equal Portions to hold and dispose these Portions in accordance with the following provisions:

(i)
I give one Portion each to my children child name and child name; and

(ii)
I give one portion to my partner partner spouse name (“spouse name”)
(a) If a gift referred to in clause 9(a)(i) lapses or fails because any of my children child name and child name do not survive me to become a beneficiary of a part in my estate but leave children who survive me (“the survivors”) then I DIRECT my Trustee to divide the part that would have been given into one or more sections and I GIVE each of the survivors one equal section: 

(b) If a gift referred to in clause 9(a)(i) or 9(a) (ii) lapses or fails because no person attains a vested interest in that Portion, that Portion is to be divided and added equally to the other respective Portions referred to in clause 9(a)(i), the gifts of which have not then lapsed or failed.
11. I GIVE to SPOUSE NAME my GIFT TO SPOUSE but in the event this gift fails I GIVE it to the ALTERNATIVE BENIFICARY.
12. Residence Trust to my Partner
12.1. On the condition I am survived by my partner SPOUSE NAME by more than 30 days then I appoint my executors the Trustees of this Residence Trust (House Trustee).

12.2. I GIVE to my House Trustee any interest I have in HOUSE ADDRESS being Lot NUMBER in SP PLAN NUMBER?  and such portion of the residue of my estate that my House Trustee deems appropriate to settle a fund (fund), to consist of:

(a) my principal residence (property) at my death;

(b) the proceeds of the disposal of all or part of any asset in the fund;

(c) assets purchased using money in the fund;

(d) assets into which all or part of any asset in the fund is converted; and

(e) any sum placed in the fund in accordance the terms of this Will.

12.3. My House Trustee shall hold the fund on trust to provide my partner SPOUSE NAME a right of residence in my principal residence at my death for his life (the “Property”) or until my House Trustee consider he has vacated the Property for a period of more than six (6) months or permanently vacated the Property and no longer requires a residence to be provided for him by this fund on condition that SPOUSE NAME during the time that SPOUSE NAME resides in the Property maintains the Property and pays all outgoings, rates, taxes other expense including but not limited to expenses of a capital nature required to maintain the Property, and all insurances.

12.4. On setting up the fund my House Trustee may, out of the residue of my estate:

(a) free assets placed in the fund from debts charged on or owing with respect to those assets; 

(b) place in the fund a sum sufficient to cover debts charged on or owing with respect to assets placed in the fund; or

(c) make such further provision for the operation of the fund as my House Trustee considers reasonable by contributing further funds from my Estate as a reserve account within the fund prior to determining what comprises my Residual Estate;

12.5. My House Trustee may, if my partner SPOUSE NAME cannot in the reasonable opinion of my House Trustee afford to pay out of the fund, pay:

(a) the rates, taxes and other outgoings in respect of assets in the fund;

(b) the premiums on insurance policies on assets in the fund; and

(c) the costs of keeping assets in the fund in a reasonable state of repair.

12.6. My House Trustee may do all or any of the following:

(a) find tenants for and let all or part of any asset in the fund;

(b) sell or otherwise dispose of all or part of any asset in the fund;

(c) raise money on the security of all or part of any asset in the fund;

(d) purchase, rent, or acquire any rights in, or right to occupy, the whole or part of any house, flat, home unit, condominium, strata title, retirement village, nursing home or other accommodation or lend to my partner SPOUSE NAME money for this purpose on such terms as my Executor decides.

(e) register any asset acquired for the fund in the name or names of my House Trustee or any of them or in any other name or names;

(f) without the consent of any beneficiary use income or capital or both income and capital of the fund to insure any assets in the fund;

(g) if in the opinion of my House Trustee the fund is inadequate to carry out its purpose, augment the fund from the income or capital of my estate before it is distributed under this Will;

(h) accumulate income from assets in the fund to the fund;

(i) use fund assets to discharge any debt owed on any asset in the fund;

12.7. In addition to the powers given to them by this schedule my House Trustee may exercise the powers given to them by law and the rest of my Will.

12.8. It is my wish that my House Trustees use their powers to ensure that my partner SPOUSE NAME is provided with comfortable and appropriate accommodation out of the assets which I have made available for that purpose.  In doing so my House Trustee shall, as far as is practical, consult with my partner SPOUSE NAME and, so far as is consistent with the general intent of the trust, give effect to my partner SPOUSE NAME’S wishes.

12.9. On the lapsing of the right of residence the balance of the fund shall be distributed in accordance with the terms of my Residual Estate.

13.  (a)
I DIRECT my Trustee to divide the whole of my Residual Estate into 2 equal Portions and to hold and dispose these Portions in accordance with the following provisions:

(i)
I give one Portion each to my children CHILD NAME and 2ND CHILD NAME.

(a) If a gift referred to in clause 11(a)(i) lapses or fails because any of my children CHILD NAME and 2ND CHILD NAME do not survive me to become a beneficiary of a part in my estate but leave children who survive me (“the survivors”) then I DIRECT my Trustee to divide the part that would have been given into one or more sections and I GIVE each of the survivors one equal section: 

(b) If a gift referred to in clause 11(a)(i) lapses or fails because no person attains a vested interest in that Portion, that Portion is to be divided and added equally to the other respective Portions referred to in clause 11(a)(i), the gifts of which have not then lapsed or failed.

14. I GIVE my Trustee authority to take control over my digital assets and my Trustee shall have the power to access, handle, distribute and dispose of my digital assets whatsoever they comprise. For clarity my digital assets includes files stored on my digital devices, including but not limited to, desktops, laptops, tablets, peripherals, storage devices, mobile telephones, smartphones, and any similar digital device which currently exists or may exist as technology develops or such comparable items as technology develops. The term “digital assets” also includes but is not limited to emails received, email accounts, digital music, digital photographs, digital videos, software licenses, social network accounts, file sharing accounts, financial accounts, domain registrations, DNS service accounts, web hosting accounts, tax preparation service accounts, online stores, affiliate programs, other online accounts and similar digital items which currently exist or may exist as technology develops or such comparable items as technology develops, regardless of the ownership of the physical device upon which the digital item is stored.
15. My Trustee may, on such terms and for such purposes as he thinks appropriate, without being liable for loss:

(a) sell;

(b) postpone the sale of;

(c) lease;

(d) mortgage; and

(e) manage,

the whole or any part of my estate.
16. My Trustee may invest or re-invest any funds in:

(a) any investment authorised by law; 

(b) any investment in which any part of my estate is invested at my death; 

(c) all or any part of any form of real estate of any tenure (including a lot within the meaning of any Strata Titles or Community Titles legislation) whether or not productive of income;
(d) shares in a company in which all the issued shares are owned by persons each of whom, because of that share ownership, has an exclusive right to occupy a part of a building on the land; 

(e) any mortgages including contributory mortgages; and

(f) shares, debentures, stocks, notes or similar securities in any public company listed or intended to be listed on an Australian Stock Exchange.

17. My Trustee may:

(a) apply for or accept bonus shares or other rights or benefits offered by a company in which my estate has an interest;
(b) apply for the maintenance, education, advancement or benefit of a beneficiary, the whole or any part of the capital or income of that share of my estate to which that beneficiary is entitled or may in future be entitled and the receipt of the payee is an absolute discharge; 

(c) determine whether receipts and outgoings are capital or income; 

(d) retain any asset even though it is wasting, hazardous or reversionary; 

(e) maintain, repair, improve, develop, alter, renovate, pull down or erect any land and buildings; 
(f) without the consent of any beneficiary, appropriate any assets of my estate in or towards the satisfaction of a legacy or a share of any person in my estate and, in so doing, ascertain and fix the value of any such asset as my Trustee think fit and for that purpose employ a duly qualified valuer in any case where necessary; and
(g) borrow money or obtain credit or financial accommodation from any person, with or without security and with or without interest and on such terms as my Trustee decide. 

18. My Trustee must pay or otherwise secure the payment of any capital gains tax or other tax, charge or liability for which my estate is liable or becomes liable before distributing my Residual Estate.
19. It is my wish that my body be cremated and my ashes divided into 2 portions and 1 portion scattered in the Arafura Sea off the coast of the Northern Territory in the Beagle Gulf off Larrakeah and the other portion scattered adjacent to my parents niche in the Norther Suburbs Crematorium.
* THE REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE HAS BEEN INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK *

Dated:


2018
………………………………..………………………………….……..
Signature of Testator

TESTATOR NAME
SIGNED by the Testator in the presence of us both being present at the same time and attested by us in the presence of him and of each other.

	Signature of Witness

Print name of Witness in full

Address of Witness

Occupation of Witness
	Signature of Witness

Print name of Witness in full

Address of Witness

Occupation of Witness


Private Client • Business •Property • Estate • Litigation

Suite 3, Level 1, 2 Barrack Street, Sydney NSW 2000

PO Box Q605, QVB Sydney NSW 1230

PH: +61 2 8244 6800 Fax: +61 2 8244 6801

www.frlegal.com.au    ABN 30 624 032 373





……………………………
……………………………..
………………………….
Testator
Witness



Witness

