1
4

THIS IS THE LAST WILL of me TESTATOR NAME of Testator Address in the state of New South Wales, dated the               day of                                                        2018.
1. I REVOKE all previous wills and testamentary dispositions.
2. I APPOINT my solicitor MURRAY JOHN FAHEY of Level 1, 2 Barrack Street, Sydney in the aforesaid State as my Executor and Trustee. 
3. If MURRAY JOHN FAHEY is unable or unwilling to act (or to continue to act) as my Executor and Trustee I APPOINT such of MY SUBSTITUTE and my relationship SUBSTITUTE as are willing and able to act, as my Executors and Trustees.

4. In this Will: 
a) The expression my Executor means my Executors and Trustees as previously appointed while acting and my personal representatives and Executor for the time being;  

b) My Executor in addition to accepting any gift given to them in this Will may apply to the Court for commission for their pains and trouble in carrying out their duties as my Executor; 

c) Gifts to a person who is named as my Executor is not dependent on that person acting as Executor; and
d) I authorise any Executor (whether original or substitute) of mine being a person engaged in any profession or business, to be entitled to charge and be paid from my estate all usual professional and business charges for business transacted, time expended and acts done by them, in connection with the powers, provisions and requirements of acting as my Executor. 

5. I GIVE my GIFT to the CHARITY NAME (CHARITY ABN). The receipt of an authorised officer of the CHARITY NAME shall be an absolute discharge to my executors. In the event this gift fails it shall form part of my Residual Estate.
6. I GIVE all of my remaining real and personal property to my Executor to pay all debts, legacies, funeral and testamentary expenses and any death, estate or succession duties for which my Estate is liable and TO HOLD the residue then remaining (my Residual Estate) on the following further terms.
7. I GIVE my Residual Estate to MY PARTNER NAME OR  such of my daughters/sons  NAMES who survive me and if more than one as tenants in common in equal shares PROVIDED THAT if either of my PARTNER/SONS/DAUGHTERS do not survive to become a beneficiary of my estate but leave children who survive them (“the survivors”) than I DIRECT my Executor divide the share that would have been given into one or more parts and I GIVE each of the survivors one equal part.
8. My Executor may, on such terms and for such purposes as they think appropriate, without being liable for loss:

(a) sell;

(b) postpone the sale of;

(c) lease;

(d) mortgage; and

(e) manage,

the whole or any part of my estate.

9. My Executor may invest or re-invest any funds in:

(a) any investment authorised by law; 

(b) any investment in which any part of my estate is invested at my death; 

(c) all or any part of any form of real estate of any tenure (including a lot within the meaning of any Strata Titles or Community Titles legislation) whether or not productive of income;

(d) shares in a company in which all the issued shares are owned by persons each of whom, because of that share ownership, has an exclusive right to occupy a part of a building on the land; 

(e) any mortgages including contributory mortgages; and

(f) shares, debentures, stocks, notes or similar securities in any public company listed or intended to be listed on an Australian Stock Exchange.

10. My Executor may:

(a) apply for or accept bonus shares or other rights or benefits offered by a company in which my estate has an interest;

(b) apply for the maintenance, education, advancement or benefit of a beneficiary, the whole or any part of the capital or income of that share of my estate to which that beneficiary is entitled or may in future be entitled and the receipt of the payee is an absolute discharge; 

(c) determine whether receipts and outgoings are capital or income; 

(d) retain any asset even though it is wasting, hazardous or reversionary; 

(e) maintain, repair, improve, develop, alter, renovate, pull down or erect any land and buildings; 

(f) without the consent of any beneficiary, appropriate any assets of my estate in or towards the satisfaction of a legacy or a share of any person in my estate and, in so doing, ascertain and fix the value of any such asset as my Executor think fit and for that purpose employ a duly qualified valuer in any case where necessary; and
(g) borrow money or obtain credit or financial accommodation from any person, with or without security and with or without interest and on such terms as my Executor decide. 

11. My Executor must pay or otherwise secure the payment of any capital gains tax or other tax, charge or liability for which my estate is liable or becomes liable before distributing my Residual Estate
12. Where any beneficial disposition of property is made to a person who does not survive me for a period of 30 days the disposition is treated as if that person had died before me.

13. In this Will, any gift which depends on the beneficiary surviving me by a specified period or attaining a specified age is contingent and does not vest in the beneficiary unless and until he or she has survived the specified period or attained the specified age.

14. In this Will income produced by a gift between my death and vesting of the gift accumulates to the gift.

15. It is my wish that my body is disposed of  BY CREMATION/ BURIED OR as my Executor decides.
* THE REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE HAS BEEN INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK *

SIGNED by the Testator in the presence of us both being present at the same time and attested by us in the presence of her and of each other.






……………………………………………………………….








NAME
	Signature of Witness

Print name of Witness in full

Address of Witness

Occupation of Witness
	Signature of Witness

Print name of Witness in full

Address of Witness

Occupation of Witness


	
	DATED                                                                      2019
                                                                 WILL

                                                                   of

                                                       TESTATOR NAME



Willmaker:   _______________
 Witness: __________________  Witness: _______________

[image: image1.jpg]

